---
title: Analyzer Cmdlet
weight: 20
geekdocCollapseSection: false
---

{{< toc >}}

## Overview

This Data Analyzer cmdlet is the second script used during Well-Architected Reliability Assessment (WARA) engagements. Based on the data generated by the Collector cmdlet, the Data Analyzer cmdlet collects the necessary information about recommendations from the Azure Proactive Resiliency Library (APRL) and generates an Action Plan Excel spreadsheet. The goal of this tool is to summarize the collected data and provide actionable insights into the health and resiliency of the Azure environment.

## Requirements

- Windows OS
- [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4)
- Microsoft Excel installed
- Role Based Access Control: Reader role to access to resources to be evaluated. Although access to the Azure Subscriptions is not required to run the script, the access will be required for the user to complete some manual validations of configurations of Azure resources after the script generates the Excel file.

## Quick Start (Local Machine only - Cloud Shell is not supported)

### Start-WARAAnalyzer
The `Start-WARAAnalyzer` cmdlet is used to analyze the collected data and generate the core WARA Action Plan Excel file.

{{< hint type=note >}}
Whatever directory you run the `Start-WARAAnalyzer` cmdlet in, the Excel file will be created in that directory. For example: if you run the `Start-WARAAnalyzer` cmdlet in the `C:\Temp` directory, the Excel file will be created in the `C:\Temp` directory.
{{< /hint >}}

You can review all of the parameters of Start-WARAAnalyzer [here](https://github.com/Azure/Well-Architected-Reliability-Assessment/blob/main/docs/wara/Start-WARAAnalyzer.md).

#### Examples

#### Run the analyzer against a specific JSON file
```PowerShell
Start-WARAAnalyzer -JSONFile 'C:\WARA\WARA_File_2024-04-01_10_01.json'
