---
title: Tools Wiki
weight: 10
geekdocCollapseSection: false
---

## 1 - Collector Script

[GitHub Link to Download](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Proactive-Resiliency-Library-v2/blob/main/tools/1_wara_collector.ps1)

The Collector PowerShell script is the first script to be run in the Azure Proactive Resiliency Library (APRL) tooling suite. It is designed to collect data from the Azure environment to help identify potential issues and areas for improvement using the Azure Resource Graph queries within this repository. The script leverages the Az.ResourceGraph module to query Azure Resource Graph for relevant data.

You have two options for running the collector script:

1. Cloud Shell
   - Requires Cloud Shell be configured with write access to a fileshare within the same tenant
2. Local Machine
   - Requires current modules leveraged in the script be installed

### 1.1 - Cloud Shell



## 2 - Data Analyzer Script

[GitHub Link to Download](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Proactive-Resiliency-Library-v2/blob/main/tools/2_wara_data_analyzer.ps1)

The Data Analyzer PowerShell script is the second script in the Azure Proactive Resiliency Library (APRL) tooling suite. It compares the output collected by the Collector script with the Azure Proactive Resiliency Guidelines (APRL) and generates an ActionPlan Excel spreadsheet. The goal of this tool is to summarize the collected data and provide actionable insights into the health and resiliency of the Azure environment.

## 3 - Reports Generator Script

[GitHub Link to Download](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Proactive-Resiliency-Library-v2/blob/main/tools/3_wara_reports_generator.ps1)

The Reports Generator PowerShell script serves as the final step in the Azure Proactive Resiliency Library (APRL) tooling suite. It takes the Excel spreadsheet generated by the Data Analyzer script and converts it into Microsoft Word and PowerPoint formats. The Reports Generator automates the process of creating comprehensive reports from the analyzed data, making it easier to share insights and recommendations.
